# HUM120-L7

## Persuading co-founders and early employees
- Equality
- Purpose
- Founder CEO

### Pursuading advisors

#### Why do you need them?
- Give advice on
    - idea
    - product design
    - go to market
- Connect with
    - customers 
    - partners/distributors
    - investors
- Give credibility to
- Give head-start as

#### Where do you find them?
- Family
    - relative
- Friends
    - friends
    - friend's boss
- Work/school
    - mentor/boss/professor

*"Cold Call"*

#### What type of advisor do you need?
- Domain expert
    - know the market and target customers
- Tech expert
- Entrepreneur
- Connect with investors' community

#### When do you invite them
- Advice is cheap but not free
    - make it official after 2 or 3 call discussion

#### How do you persuade them?
1. Purpose/mission
2. Equity/reward
3. You and your team
4. Can I add value to this startup?

#### Equity guidelines
Stock options:
- 0.1% ~ 2% per advisor
- 1 to 2 years vest
- 1-year window to exercise stock option

#### Expectation
- 1-4 hours per month
- access to the network: agree on scope
- duration: 1-4 years of active advisory role

#### Board member: role
**value:**
1. Advice
2. Connection
3. Credibility
4. Head-start
5. Oversight of the management team

**how many:** 4-6
**when to get an external board member?**
- at first external funding (seed)
- get to know a potential board member

#### Board management
- No. of board meetings: 4-6 per year
- Per meeting socialization of agenda (everyone knows good/bad news, no SURPRISE)
- Balance of power
    - management vs. board AKA freedom vs. oversight
- Managing opposing agendas
    - result matter
    - power of persuasion
    - no politics or cliques

#### Legal and financial advisors
- Ask for recommendations from other entrepreneurs and your advisors

## Songyee Yoon
- Entrepreneurship is chaotic, you need to be reactive, focusing on customer demands. 

- During the times at Telecom, When 3G exists, business plans, form factors. Cooperate with JYP about the music video

- Except EQ and IQ, it is how committed you are, and leadership among friend groups. Coming solutions. 
    - Product market fit.

> Q: How do VC choose us?
> R: VC tries to raised every year, you need to be . Looking for longer term to see actually result. Depending on problem you trying to solve. 

> Q: Korean networking, hard to make people remember your korean name?
> R: Korean namee are relatively easy to pronouce.

> Q: How should we get prepared for AI?
> R: Be open minded, think of it as a language.

> Q: What changes your path rather than EE? After majoring computational neuralscience, your first job is engagement manager?
> R: Take the job at McKinsey as paid MBA, I think that is a brillant idea. 